[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I've been working as a developer for
the past eight years and
it's a job that I find really rewarding.
Cuz I feel like I get to go to work and
solve problems.
And I find it really fun and
so I'm hoping to share this,
some of the skill set with you.
We're kind of scratching the surface, but
it's going to be enough for you guys to
kind of get a grasp of everything and
know enough to know how to find more
information and how to learn some of these
things in a more in depth kind of way.
So the first thing that we're
gonna talk about is our tool set.
And it's really, really important and why?
It's because the tools of our
trade are designed to help us.
To help us solve problems,
to help us do things faster, and
you need a good text editor and
a way to debug HTML, CSS, and Javascript.
And there are lots of browsers
out there but Chrome is kind of,
it's the one that's really
geared towards developers.
It's much easier to find your way around.
The developer tools are built-in,
unlike some of the other browsers.
And the text editor we'll be
using today is Sublime Text.
But you can use any editor of your choice.
So the reason we use a text
editor that's specific for
code is because we have
syntax highlighting for
all the different programming
languages that we use, HTML, CSS.
So, in this example,
the brackets are highlighted in
a different color, and the string,
which is the thing between those quotes,
is a different color as well.
And that's a visual indicator
that things are correct.
And so your brackets have to match up.
And so if they're colored, it's much
easier to see if you've missed something.
Same with your parenthesis.
So Sublime text has a great feature.
Where your parenthesis, when they match up
they will be highlighted, so if you type
parenthesis into Sublime text, it will put
underscores underneath the matching pairs.
So in the example above we have an extra
parenthasy with no match and so when
we type it and put our cursor on it, we'll
see that no other parenthesis highlighted.
It also has a great tool
called replace all, so for
example if you wanna change
a string in a whole block of text,
you can go to edit and replace type
in your new thing, hit replace all,
and it'll find all of the instances and
swap them out for you.
So, we're gonna use Chrome
to debug our web pages, and
if you guys could visit google.com and
right click anywhere that's not an image,
and click on View Page Source.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
when you guys do that,
you're gonna get something like this.
And it's like whoa,
what is all this stuff?
There's a bunch of numbers,
not a ton of words.
It's not really clear at all.
So a better way of debugging a page.
And you guys cant try this
out by right clicking on
the Google image and
going to inspect element
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
that's much better.
So by doing this, you're scrolling right
into the source of the code that does
the specific thing and so
here you can see it's an image tag which
we'll talk about later but there's also
a link to the image that's being used and
if we hover over that link,
we'll see the Google logo.
So a great thing about Chrome is
that you can actually go ahead and
update the values.
So, if you have this up here,
you'll see that there's a height tag.
You can double click on it and
update the value.
So you can enter new value,
press Enter and you'll see your changes.
So one thing to note about this is
these changes are only on your computer
if you refresh the page you'll lose them.
So.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's try and
change the Google logo.
So we're going to navigate to google.com,
we're going to right-click and
inspect the google image element.
And then we're gonna set the width to 700,
and the height to 30.
So I'll go ahead and
do that with you guys.
>> Student: You just have
to go back.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Back.
>> Student: Yeah [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Is that fine?
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
so we got google.com,
we're going to right click,
inspect element.
It'll pop up this console here and
let me make this text size bigger so
that you can see it.
So we're going to double
click in the height.
Change that value to 30.
And double click in the width and
set that value to 700 and press Enter.
And you guys should see
something like this.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Is everyone see that?
Does anyone need help?
>> Student: [COUGH]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay.
Great
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
so that was our result.
The other great thing about Chrome is it
has something called a Javascript Console
which we'll be using
a lot later in the class.
And to do that, you go to View,
Developer, and Javascript Consoles.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
can everyone open that up?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So it's View,
Developer, and JavaScript Console.
For the purpose of this class,
it would be nice to
open that up in a brand new tab so that if
there's anything going on with the webpage
that you have this consult open on,
it's not interfering with your work.
For example, like Google here so
this is totally fine we
can just go in here and
press Enter a few times to clear it out.
>> Student: [INAUDIBLE] On the top left.
No top left yeah there we go.
That was-
>> Nina Zakharenko: This?
There we go.
Yup, you can hit this right
here to clear out your console.
So we're going to type something
out here and see our result.
So let's type console.log,
and in the process, this developer
console should be giving you hints.
So as you type you'll
see things that match.
And then we're gonna put a quote and
Hello World match that quote and
match that parenthesy.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Once you have that and
you hit Enter,
if you scroll up you'll see that
Hello World was printed right here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So the other thing
that we'll be using the console for
a lot is if you have an error
in your Javascript files.
You'll see an indicator here
in the developer toolbar.
It'll show a big red X.
And the number of errors that you have.